Whois Enumeration
Whois is a TCP service, tool, and a type
of database that can provide information
about a domain name, such as the name
server and registrar.
This information is often public since
registrars charge a fee
for private registration.
We can gather basic information about a
domain name by executing a standard
forward search by passing the domain name
into the whois client.
Not all of this data is useful, but we did
discover some valuable information.
First, the output reveals that Alan
Grofield registered the domain name.
According to the Megacorp One Contact
page,
Alan is the “IT and Security Director”.
We also found the name servers for
MegaCorp One.
Name servers are a component of DNS, which
we won’t be examining here,
but we should add these servers to our
notes for further investigation.
In addition to this standard forward
lookup, which gathers information
about a DNS name, the whois client can
also perform reverse lookups.
Assuming we have an IP address, we can
perform a reverse lookup to gather more
information about it.
The results of the reverse lookup gives us
information on who is hosting the
IP address.
This information could be useful later,
and as with all the information we gather,
we should add this to our notes.